---
tags: rust, android, release
title: Introducing Story Pages
---

I'm excited to announce a new feature on progscrape... **story pages**! Now, for&nbsp;
each story in the database, you can access a dedicated page that aggregates all
the relevant discussions and details about that story.

## How to Access Story Pages

To view a story page, simply click the `...` icon next to the story's title in
the search results. This will open a details page for that specific story
with all of the links to discussions around the web, even if the story has
been submitted multiple times over the years.

Alternatively, you can navigate directly to a story page by using the following
URL format:

`https://progscrape.com/s/<url>`

Here, `<url>` represents the specific story's URL without the `http:` or
`https:` protocol prefix.

## Searching for Stories

The search box also now includes the ability to search by URL. Enter a URL into
the search box, and progscrape will load up the story page. This search will
also provide links to discussions on platforms like Hacker News, Reddit,
Lobsters, and Slashdot.

## Other Recent Changes

There are a few more improvements alongside these changes:

- _Improved Search Resilience_: We've fixed issues that previously caused the web
  application to break during certain searches. Now, progscrape is more robust,
  and will be better at interpreting search queries to return useful results.

- _Error Messaging for Empty Searches_: Instead of showing a blank page, empty
  search result pages now display an error message. This helps users understand
  that no matching results were found, providing a clearer and more informative
  user experience.

- _Google Analytics removed_: progscrape is now using a small, lightweight,
  self-hosted analytics solution for better end-user privacy.

Stay tuned for more updates as we continue to improve progscrape. Thank you for
your continued support and feedback and as usual feel free to reach out to me at matthew@mastracci.com
if you have any questions or want to contribute!
